hello and welcome to a pre III
installment of the game anthropologist I
decided that I want to do a little
information and gathering about III
right before the conference starts and
man I have a lot to talk about i mean
you got xbox one and they're absolutely
atrocious marketing campaign and just to
try to understand what the ps4 is what
it even looks like we see what it kinda
is about to deliver and we're kind of
speculating about and also the
speculation we're gaming is going as a
whole but that was all usurped today by
the news from Konami so Konami in their
infinite wisdom decided to throw a pre
III party today and actually reveal a
lot of information about the upcoming
metal gear solid game and also
Castlevania but obviously it was the
information coming from metal gear solid
5 the phantom pain that really got
gamers panties into a big old wad and
that was the news that David Hayter the
longtime voice actor for solid snake and
big boss and pretty much old snake
characters in the series is being
replaced by none other than keeper
Sutherland now I know I kid with the
whole panties in a wad thing but this
really is a big deal i mean david hayter
voice acting for over 15 years a snake
character that's something that if you
change seemingly overnight that you
actually are not going to elicit some
kind of reaction even though we did get
kind of a clue as to it a few months ago
from hater himself now instead of
wallowing in self-pity or burning day
Okajima or Konami an effigy I decided to
actually kind of analyze this a little
bit and actually contemplate or allow
you guys to contemplate what exactly
this change is all about and maybe had
some fun speculation about it I kind of
narrowed it down to three points I
kajima economic are going for now the
first one is the transition of gaming
into a more cinematic field this is
something's been going on for quite some
time now and you can definitely say
could Jamie's been at the forefront of
this whole thing each metal gear solid
is a bigger scope and bigger cinematic
and has more cinematics by the way
sometimes actually longer than the
gameplay itself now I should point out
that i should have utter contempt for
the Metal Gear Solid series from its
weird boss fights to its weird boss
characters to add inane dialogue that
spouses ideological penis measuring
contest to Johnny sasaki but
I actually really enjoyed the experience
I enjoy it on a cinematic level and the
action I also enjoyed the evolution to
each game seems to take place you have
the sneaking mission then you have first
person shooting added to the sneaking
mission which makes a little bit easier
then you have the adaptive qualities in
Metal Gear Solid 3 and so on I really
enjoy the progression that the game
seemed to be going through even though
it's not obviously the best sneaking
mission games or stealth gains but it's
just there's something compelling that
always brings him back to it and David
Hayter himself is the voice actor for
snake probably kept me coming back as
well this is snake Colonel can you hear
me and with me professing my love for
this game series I can actually say that
this transition from hater to settlin
I'm actually okay with it sometimes a
great guy can actually raise the profile
of a game like this to more mainstream
circles which gaming companies are
desperately seeking for this
billion-dollar day and age and also it
seems from the interviews I could gene
is actually looking for more grit and
snake in this game it's something that
fits perfectly Sutton's characters that
he's ever played in movies and
television the second point I want to
get to is the need for injecting life
into the series itself and you can
actually take some of the aspects of the
first point that I pointed out and apply
to this as well despite the love that
the fans have for the game's most people
that actually approached Metal Gear
Solid or any of the melt your games kind
of see it as kind of schlocky and kind
of stupid and kind of really long winded
or just plain silly and if kojima is
really trying to go for something
different in this case this is the way
to go though I may ruffle the feathers
of some of the more hardcore fanbase
Kojima does have final say on the
character it's his vision but it does
bring up an interesting debate that
should be going on in the gaming
community that debate being do fans have
control of the culture for which they
participate besides big boss always did
have a different voices genetically
identical son Solid Snake so in fairs
reason that you can actually have a
different voice and finally it brings me
to my last and probably most silly point
it's a conspiracy between Konami and
Kojima by British film critic and
all-around great guy mark kermode once
described be crazy and hack tastic
director life and career as follows he's
a prankster a person he wouldn't trust
fully if he told him the sky was blue
he would still have to look up and
double check and that's exactly what
today was Gina is he's essentially the
gaming equivalent of Lars von Trier
although probably not quite as crazy I'm
not at all truly convinced that this
isn't some kind of long con trolling
game by Okajima himself I mean you guys
don't remember how mental gear solid two
sons of liberty ended up we all thought
oh great it's gonna be snake on the
PlayStation 2 with great 3d graphics and
shooting and all that kind of stuff what
do we get whiny boy riding plus if you
look at the GDC 2013 footage of metal
gear solid 5 you notice that Sutherland
is clearly playing the bandage ish mile
on the other hand he really does sound
like coma snake as well I mean it could
be decoy octopus he had his ears chopped
off and his nose flattened and pretty
much his head shaved that could have
been caused by many of things that would
require bandages plus it seems like he's
mimicking someone's voice and also to
fit the time frame and if you decide you
want to put on a tighter tin foil how
you can actually look at the
behind-the-scenes footage that konami
released today as well sutherlin always
keeps referring to it as the character
though he does say he's playing snake he
says it very obtuse li+ and this is more
of an aesthetic choice the whole motion
capture looks kind of odd I don't know
really had a library it just looks odd
what a conspiracy is a lot more simple
than we actually like to believe and
it's actually staring us right in the
face after all kijima does like to
mention the new Fox engine a lot talking
about the advanced technology the
open-world gameplay and how the system
is changing this all could be another
trolling effort is to garner a lot more
attention for the ps4 on the upcoming
unveiling next week that's probably more
in line with the actual conspiracy in
deference to David Hayter it should be
said that it is a dick move to simply
remove him from the entire universe
especially without consulting him if his
Twitter feeds to be believed it seems to
indicate that Konami didn't fully
relieve him with the role they just
dropped him from all appearances but
then again it could be Kajima just
trolling us from under the bridge bad
but what do I know could be any of those
things or could be none of those things
it's just something to contemplate about
and ultimately to complain about just
some food for thought